---
title: "Sigil-0.9.7 Released"
date: 2016-10-30T09:58:08-04:00
last_modified_at: 2016-10-30T10:23:14-04:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---


For the impatient, the installer files (and source) can be found as attachments at the bottom [of the Github Release page](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/0.9.7).

This Sigil-0.9.7 release is a mix of bug fixes and new features for both epub2 and epub3 users.

__Bug Fixes__

*   Allow tags in the svg and mathml namespace to automtically self-close if empty to help work around a bug in Kindlegen that will not seem to accept a closing svg image tag even though image is non-void
*   Prevent TextTab from constantly recentering page when focus is lost
*   Fix bugs in plugin basename\_to\_id when used with xpgt files or any unrecognized extensions
*   Fix typos in pls mimetype in plugins
*   Fix code synchronization issues among 3 places where file extensions are mapped to mimetypes
*   Fix plugin readotherfile interface to rebuild the opf on the fly only if it has been modified
*   Fix plugin validation issues with integer vs string representations of line number and character offsets
*   Fix duplicate filename in multiple directories bug when updating CSS urls
*   Fix bug in page-map.xml mimetype when “Add Existing …” is used
*   Fix undefined behaviour shifting signed negative values in 3rdparty libs and fix many warnings
*   Fix text vs binary file type recognition in the plugin interface (CSS and js files are text not binary)
*   Fix too small toolbar icons on high dpi displays
*   Fix bug that caused text highlighting to get lost on some systems when doing a CSS Find &amp; Replace.
*   Fix bug in plugin interface basename\_to\_id to recognize .htm extensions
*   Fix bug in epub3 semantic popups to always refect the local name of epub:type setting
*   Fix bug where creation on an HTML TOC could overwrite an existing Nav under epub3
*   Fix manifest id not starting with alpha character bug

__New Features__

*   Extend validation plugin interface with add\_extended\_result() method to allow better cursor positioning
*   Extend TextTab and Tabs derived by it to position cursor based on offset
*   Allow editing of page-map.xml files, xpgt files and other misc xml based files inside Sigil
*   Update Windows builds use Python 3.5.2, VS2015
*   Update Mac OS X builds and build instructions to use Python-3.5.2
*   Remove support for python2.7 _only_ plugins and simply Manage Plugins settings
*   Update to Qt 5.6.1-1 with QtWebKit added back for release builds for Windows (VS2015) and Mac OSX
*   Update Mac OS X and Linux build instruction documentation for recent changes
*   Allow Linux Dictionaries to look up default paths for dictionaries passed in by build cmake settings
*   Make the columns in the Manage Plugins table be sortable by the user
*   Better detect undefined and non-existing url fragments to prevent issues when splitting or merging files
*   Make tooltips for Run Plugin Icons show the name of the selected plugin on hover
*   Upgrade from jquery 1.6.2 to version 2.2.4
*   Upgrade from jquery.scrollTo 1.4.2 to version 2.1.2
*   Upgrade to double sized 48×48 pixel icons for High DPI displays, Special Thanks to PatNY for creating our icons

Be aware that Sigil-0.9.7 still enforces the need for epub3 to have and support an NCX so that it generates as backward a compatible epub as possible. This may be relaxed in future releases.

Sigil-0.9.7 like its predecessors passed all of the following tests for epub3 support: iframe, img, audio, video , mathml, svg (except for svg support in the spine), javascript, and of course recognizing and allowing html5 specific tags like section, and etc. Sigil-0.9.7 also supports javascript based local-storage and display of embedded pdfs.

__Download Location__  
The official location for downloading this Sigil release (and all official releases) is:

<https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/0.9.7> (downloads found at the bottom)

The latest version of the Sigil User Guide can be downloaded from: [https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/raw/master/docs/Sigil\_User\_Guide\_0\_7\_2.epub](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/raw/master/docs/Sigil_User_Guide_0_7_2.epub)

Downloading binaries from anyplace else is simply NOT a good idea as they could inject anything into their own downloads. After downloading, please verify the downloaded binary exactly matches what was originally posted by running an SHA 256 checksum on the file __before__ installing it. See the file Sigil-0.9.7-CHECKSUMS.sha256.txt for the correct checksums for each file and instructions for how to calculate a SHA 256 Checksum for your download. The Mac OS X Package has also been code signed with my Apple Developer signature.

__Windows Users__  
If your current version of Sigil is 0.9.6 or earlier, it’s recommended (but not required) that you uninstall that version before installing 0.9.7. Some compiled Python files have had their file extentions changed (as well as the change to Python 3.5). As a result, there will be a lot of extraneous files left lying around if you just install the new over the old. It won’t cause any functionality problems, but if disk space is at a premium, you may want to clean things up a bit. You can do this by uninstalling Sigil at any time (even after 0.9.7 is installed) and reinstalling. Doing so won’t affect your any of your preferences, plugins, keyboard shortcuts, clips, saved searches, etc.

__Linux Users__  
There are currently no binary releases available for Linux on the Sigil Release page. Please check with your favorite distro’s software repositories to see if they have Sigil for installation via your OS’s package management system. If not, there are build instructions for compiling Sigil yourself in the source archive’s docs directory: <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/tree/master/docs>

__Don’t forget the FlightCrew plugin__  
Please note, the epub2 validator FlightCrew has been converted to a plugin for Sigil 0.8.900 and later.  
This plugin has been updated for Sigil-0.9.3 (and later). It can be downloaded from the official Sigil-Ebook flightcrew repository if you have not already installed it.

<https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/flightcrew/releases/tag/0.9.1>

__Attention Mac OS X Users__  
Per the recommendation of <http://www.python.org> (see <https://www.python.org/download/mac/tcltk/>), due to bugs and the age of Apple’s internal Tcl library, you should also download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition. To get the latest bug fixes, Sigil-0.9.7’s embedded Python has been linked with the very latest version: Tcl 8.6.4.1

We may _not_ redistribute this Package with Sigil due to ActiveState’s binary non-redistribution policy.

So please, if you have not already done so download and install this version of ActiveState’s Active Tcl Community Edition, until we get a chance to do our own build of Tcl 8.6.4.1 from source for future releases. ActiveState is a primary contributor to <http://www.python.org> and a respected and trusted source for python and tcl/tk related binaries on both Windows and Mac OS X.

See: <http://www.activestate.com/activetcl/downloads>  
Version: 8.6.4.1

__Some Additional things__

When you fire up Sigil for the very first time:

*   navigate to the new General Preferences and select the default  
    epub version you plan to work with (epub 2 or epub3) so that new  
    empty ebooks start with the correct code.
*   if you plan to work with epub3 epubs, you should change your  
    PreserveEntities setting to use ONLY NUMERIC entities.  
    For example use &amp; \# 1 6 0 ; for non-breaking spaces and etc.
*   We strongly recommend enabling Mend On Open in your settings  
    for best performance with Sigil