---
title: "Sigil-0.9.5 Released"
date: 2016-03-26T10:37:11-04:00
last_modified_at: 2016-03-26T10:37:11-04:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---


This Sigil-0.9.5 release is a quick follow-up bug fix release to primarily address some regressions that had snuck into the code over the past two releases.

### Bug Fixes

*    Fix regression when ImportHTML in gathering HTML based DC. metadata
*    Fix regression – remove incorrect use of opf:scheme from dc:creator and dc:contributor under epub2
*    Fix regression – the guide reference tag is always a void tag
*    Fix issues with hunspell spell checking under Windows when non-ascii paths to dictionaries
*    Fix issues with overridding the prefs directory on Windows with non-ascii paths
*    Fix broken manual “Check” button on W3C stylesheet validation’s generated html form.
*    Fix media-type recognition for .m4a and .m4v file extenstions in main Sigil and plugin code
*    Treat ruby and rt as inline tags when pretty-printing in Sigils and for plugins 

Even our one new feature fixes a bug in which CSS version is used to validate CSS under epub3.

### New Feature

*   Allow user to choose what level of CSS gets used in the “Validate Stylesheets  
    With W3C” tool via user preference (General). 

Be aware that Sigil-0.9.5 still enforces the need for epub3 to have and support an NCX so that it generates as backward a compatible epub as possible. This may be relaxed in future releases.

Sigil-0.9.5 like its predecessors passed all of the following tests for epub3 support: iframe, img, audio, video , mathml, svg (except for svg support in the spine), javascript, and of course recognizing and allowing html5 specific tags like section, and etc. Sigil-0.9.5 also supports javascript based local-storage and display of embedded pdfs.

__Download Location__  
The official location for downloading this Sigil release (and all official releases) is:

 <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/0.9.5>

Downloading binaries from anyplace else is simply not a good idea as they could inject anything into their own downloads. After downloading, please verify the downloaded binary exactly matches what was originally posted by running an SHA 256 checksum on the file \*\*before\*\* installing it. See the file Sigil-0.9.5-CHECKSUMS.sha256.txt for the correct checksums for each file and instructions for how to calculate a SHA 256 Checksum for your download. The Mac OS X Package has also been code signed with my Apple Developer signature. 

__Linux Users__  
There are currently no binary releases available for Linux on the Sigil Release page. Please check with your favorite distro’s software repositories to see if they have Sigil for installation via your OS’s package management system. If not, there are build instructions for compiling Sigil yourself in the source archive’s docs directory: <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/tree/master/docs>

__Don’t forget the FlightCrew plugin__  
Please note, the epub2 validator FlightCrew has been converted to a plugin for Sigil 0.8.900 and later. 

This plugin has been updated for Sigil-0.9.3 (and later). It can be downloaded from the official Sigil-Ebook flightcrew repository if you have not already installed it.

 <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/flightcrew/releases/tag/0.9.1>

__Attention Mac OS X Users__  
Per the recommendation of <http://www.python.org> (see <https://www.python.org/download/mac/tcltk/>), due to bugs and the age of Apple’s internal Tcl library, you should also download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition. To get the latest bug fixes, Sigil-0.9.5’s embedded Python has been linked with the very latest version: Tcl 8.6.4.1

We may \*not\* redistribute this Package with Sigil due to ActiveState’s binary non-redistribution policy.

So please, if you have not already done so download and install this version of ActiveState’s Active Tcl Community Edition, until we get a chance to do our own build of Tcl 8.6.4.1 from source for future releases. ActiveState is a primary contributor to <http://www.python.org> and a respected and trusted source for python and tcl/tk related binaries on both Windows and Mac OS X.

 See: <http://www.activestate.com/activetcl/downloads>  
 Version: 8.6.4.1 

__Some Additional things__

When you fire up Sigil for the very first time:

*    navigate to the new General Preferences and select the default  
     epub version you plan to work with (epub 2 or epub3) so that new  
     empty ebooks start with the correct code.
*    if you plan to work with epub3 epubs, you should change your  
     PreserveEntities setting to use ONLY NUMERIC entities.  
     For example use &amp; \# 1 6 0 ; for non-breaking spaces and etc.
*    We strongly recommend enabling Mend On Open in your settings  
     for best performance with Sigil