---
title: "Sigil-0.9.6 Released"
date: 2016-06-18T20:17:26-04:00
last_modified_at: 2016-06-18T20:17:26-04:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---


This Sigil-0.9.6 release is a mix of bug fixes and new features for both epub2 and epub3 users.

### Bug Fixes

*   Make StdWarningDialog resizeable when “Show Details” is used
*   Fix CleanSource svg prefix removal bug that sometimes broke valid svg code
*   Remove svg image and html5 menuitem from the list of void elements in the Sigil and plugin code
*   Properly xml escape “&amp;” in metadata attribute values
*   Properly perform source updates on epub on load even when they do not follow recommended spec
*   Make handling of comments in both xhtml and xml more robust
*   Properly url escape css file names to handle css files with spaces in them
*   Try to make direct editing of content.opf more safe by auto-fixing errors when possible
*   Properly handle WellFormed checks for pure XML in XMLResource.cpp by using embedded python3 lxml
*   Make opf\_newparser.py and xmlprocessor.py more robust to broken user input in content.opf
*   Make ProcessXML (repairXML in xmlprocessor.py) – leave untouched anything well-formed
*   Fix thinko in plugin bookcontainer.py and outputcontainer.py contributed by wrCisco
*   Fix for improper encoding in plugins on Mac OS X due to missing inherited plugin environment
*   Fix for typos in epub xmlns when splitting epub3 ebooks in BookView
*   Update testplugin\_v012.zip to testplugin\_v013.zip to handle sgc-nav.css new feature
*   Fix bugs in DeleteUnusedStyles when selector exists more than once in the same stylesheet
*   Fix bugs in DeleteUnusedStyles when group selectors span more than one line
*   Fix bugs in Reports: CSS Styles missing cases when selector exists more than once
*   Fix bug in Reports: All Files to use Landmark Semantics under epub3 not guide semantics
*   Fix bug, slow in loading ini when too large clipboard history, user can now delete them via dialog
*   Stop cosmetic double-spaces being introduced into OPF manifest, spine and guide entries
*   Prevent bug when user selects too much in BookView and then tries to change case
*   Fix bug in Delete Unused Media when css urls do not use quotes
*   Try to set all ways of updating the ncx to use 2 character indentation of head element
*   Fix Building Relocatable Python on Mac build instructions to remove BeautifulSoup4 requirement
*   Fix for generating empty guide for epub3 when in plugins

### New Features

*   created sgc-nav.css stylesheet for nav and allow templates in Prefs Dir for user to control it
*   Added General Setting to allow user to set own temporary directory location
*   Added Qt Stylesheet support – Recognize and load “qt\_styles.qss” file if stored in Sigil Preferences folder
*   Extended the plugin interface to add support for epub3 bindings elements
*   Add option + forward delete shortcut to active Metadata Editor remove

Be aware that Sigil-0.9.6 still enforces the need for epub3 to have and support an NCX so that it generates as backward a compatible epub as possible. This may be relaxed in future releases.

Sigil-0.9.6 like its predecessors passed all of the following tests for epub3 support: iframe, img, audio, video , mathml, svg (except for svg support in the spine), javascript, and of course recognizing and allowing html5 specific tags like section, and etc. Sigil-0.9.6 also supports javascript based local-storage and display of embedded pdfs.

__Download Location__  
The official location for downloading this Sigil release (and all official releases) is:

<https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/0.9.6>

Downloading binaries from anyplace else is simply NOT a good idea as they could inject anything into their own downloads. After downloading, please verify the downloaded binary exactly matches what was originally posted by running an SHA 256 checksum on the file __before__ installing it. See the file Sigil-0.9.6-CHECKSUMS.sha256.txt for the correct checksums for each file and instructions for how to calculate a SHA 256 Checksum for your download. The Mac OS X Package has also been code signed with my Apple Developer signature.

__Linux Users__  
There are currently no binary releases available for Linux on the Sigil Release page. Please check with your favorite distro’s software repositories to see if they have Sigil for installation via your OS’s package management system. If not, there are build instructions for compiling Sigil yourself in the source archive’s docs directory: <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/tree/master/docs>

__Don’t forget the FlightCrew plugin__  
Please note, the epub2 validator FlightCrew has been converted to a plugin for Sigil 0.8.900 and later.  
This plugin has been updated for Sigil-0.9.3 (and later). It can be downloaded from the official Sigil-Ebook flightcrew repository if you have not already installed it.

<https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/flightcrew/releases/tag/0.9.1>

__Attention Mac OS X Users__  
Per the recommendation of <http://www.python.org> (see <https://www.python.org/download/mac/tcltk/>), due to bugs and the age of Apple’s internal Tcl library, you should also download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition. To get the latest bug fixes, Sigil-0.9.6’s embedded Python has been linked with the very latest version: Tcl 8.6.4.1

We may _not_ redistribute this Package with Sigil due to ActiveState’s binary non-redistribution policy.

So please, if you have not already done so download and install this version of ActiveState’s Active Tcl Community Edition, until we get a chance to do our own build of Tcl 8.6.4.1 from source for future releases. ActiveState is a primary contributor to <http://www.python.org> and a respected and trusted source for python and tcl/tk related binaries on both Windows and Mac OS X.

See: <http://www.activestate.com/activetcl/downloads>  
Version: 8.6.4.1

__Some Additional things__

When you fire up Sigil for the very first time:

*   navigate to the new General Preferences and select the default  
    epub version you plan to work with (epub 2 or epub3) so that new  
    empty ebooks start with the correct code.
*   if you plan to work with epub3 epubs, you should change your  
    PreserveEntities setting to use ONLY NUMERIC entities.  
    For example use &amp; \# 1 6 0 ; for non-breaking spaces and etc.
*   We strongly recommend enabling Mend On Open in your settings  
    for best performance with Sigil
    
    