---
title: "Sigil-0.9.4 Released"
date: 2016-03-13T18:57:55-04:00
last_modified_at: 2016-03-13T18:57:55-04:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---

__Sigil 0.9.4__ is both a bug fix release and a release to greatly improve epub3 editing and generation all without impacting Sigil’s epub2 capabilities.

The main bug fixes are:

*    Prevent the use of zero length key fields when obfuscating fonts
*    IDPF font obfuscation key accepts all input except as specified
*    Fix typo in main.ui accelerator assignment
*    Update Transifex project URL
*    Prevent NCX Weirdness with ampersand added when editing NCX in codeview and TOC widget showing
*    Fix lost namespace attributes on metadata tag
*    Allow auto conversion from package version 1.0 to 2.0
*    Remove unused parameter from gumbo create\_text\_node
*    Fix bug that hits package version when no xml declaration on opf on import
*    Add id to Heading structure to greatly speed up NCX/TOC creation even more
*    Only the true nav should ever have the nav manifest property set
*    Prevent nav property from being overwritten when updating manifest properties
*    Prevent segfault if user selects add semantics but never chooses one
*    Prevent Add Cover from returning the wrong doctype for epub3
*    Make sure cover-image and svg (if needed) are added as epub3 manifest properties when adding a cover
*    Make sure all referenced resources are found for Delete Unused Media
*    Remap non-standard epub namespace prefixes in the opf to those now reserved for epub3
*    Make loading epubs with broken opf files more robust
*    Better identify the true nav when loading epub3s

The main new features available are:

*   Completely redesigned the MetaEditor gui to work with both epub2 and epub3 metadata
    
    *   Extended epub3 metadata is now supported
    *   Added the default metadata language and title for the user
    *   Extracted and updated the MarcRelators codes so they can be shared 
    
    
    
*   The Nav is now a required part of an epub3
    
    *   Sigil will create an empty one upon import if need be
    *   The Nav TOC can now be generated from Book Headings using the normal CreateTOC tool
    *   Added support for Adding/Removing Nav Landmarks
    *   Similar to the NCX, Nav documents can not be deleted, split, or merged 
    
    
    
*   Completely Revamped the BookBrowser interface to support both Guide and Landmark Semantics
    
    *   Created a new Add Semantics Dialog to better handle epub2 and epub3 semantics
    *   Both Landmark and Guide Semantics now show up in BookBrowser tooltips 
    
    
    
*   Completely Revamped how the dockable TableOfContents gui widget is built and updated
    
    *   Allow dockable Table Of Contents to refresh from Nav under epub3, and NCX under epub2 
    
    
    

Be aware that Sigil-0.9.4 still enforces the need for epub3 to have and support an NCX so that it generates as backward a compatible epub as possible. This may be relaxed in future releases.

Sigil-0.9.4 like its predecessor passed all of the following tests for epub3 support: iframe, img, audio, video , mathml, svg (except for svg support in the spine), javascript, and of course recognizing and allowing html5 specific tags like section, and etc. Sigil-0.9.4 also supports javascript based local-storage and display of embedded pdfs.

Our plan for moving forward for epub3 support in future releases:

*    add gui to easily set epub:type semantics on highlighted tags
*    add support to preview fixed layout epubs
*    support for media-overlay (SMIL) playback during preview, and in metadata editing

__Download Location__  
The official location for downloading this Sigil release (and all official releases) is:

 <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/0.9.4>

Downloading binaries from anyplace else is simply not a good idea as they could inject anything into their own downloads. After downloading, please verify the downloaded binary exactly matches what was originally posted by running an SHA 256 checksum on the file \*\*before\*\* installing it. See the file Sigil-0.9.4-CHECKSUMS.sha256.txt for the correct checksums for each file and instructions for how to calculate a SHA 256 Checksum for your download. The Mac OS X Package has also been code signed with my Apple Developer signature. 

__Linux Users__  
There are currently no binary releases available for Linux on the Sigil Release page. Please check with your favorite distro’s software repositories to see if they have Sigil for installation via your OS’s package management system. If not, there are build instructions for compiling Sigil yourself in the source archive’s docs directory: 

 <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/tree/master/docs>

__Don’t forget the FlightCrew plugin__  
Please note, the epub2 validator FlightCrew has been converted to a plugin for Sigil 0.8.900 and later.  
This plugin has been updated for Sigil-0.9.3 (and later). It can be downloaded from the official Sigil-Ebook flightcrew repository if you have not already installed it.

 <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/flightcrew/releases/tag/0.9.1>

__Attention Mac OS X Users__  
Per the recommendation of <http://www.python.org> (see <https://www.python.org/download/mac/tcltk/>), due to bugs and the age of Apple’s internal Tcl library, you should also download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition. To get the latest bug fixes, Sigil-0.9.4’s embedded Python has been linked with the very latest version: Tcl 8.6.4.1

We may \*not\* redistribute this Package with Sigil due to ActiveState’s binary non-redistribution policy.

So please, if you have not already done so download and install this version of ActiveState’s Active Tcl Community Edition, until we get a chance to do our own build of Tcl 8.6.4.1 from source for future releases. ActiveState is a primary contributor to <http://www.python.org> and a respected and trusted source for python and tcl/tk related binaries on both Windows and Mac OS X.

 See: <http://www.activestate.com/activetcl/downloads>  
 Version: 8.6.4.1 

__Some Additional things__

When you fire up Sigil for the very first time:

*    navigate to the new General Preferences and select the default  
     epub version you plan to work with (epub 2 or epub3) so that new  
     empty ebooks start with the correct code.
*    if you plan to work with epub3 epubs, you should change your  
     PreserveEntities setting to use ONLY NUMERIC entities.  
     For example use &amp; \# 1 6 0 ; for non-breaking spaces and etc.
*    We strongly recommend enabling Mend On Open in your settings  
     for best performance with Sigil