---
title: "PageEdit-0.7.1 Release"
date: 2019-07-20T18:54:28-04:00
last_modified_at: 2019-07-20T18:54:28-04:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - PageEdit
---


__For the impatient, the binary files (and source) can be found as assets at the bottom of [the PageEdit Github Release page](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/PageEdit/releases/tag/0.7.1).__

PageEdit is a single page visual XHTML editor based on Sigil’s Deprecated BookView. It uses QtWebEngine instead of QtWebKit. It replaces much of what Sigil’s BookView could do plus it integrates the QtWebEngine Inspector which allows you to see the result of your visual editing live, and make changes via the Inspector interface itself.

PageEdit-0.7.1 contains minor updates from the initial beta release.

PageEdit can be easily launched from Sigil (any recent version) with its Open-With functionality or set as Sigil’s preferred external xhtml editor for fast launch by shortcut or icon.

Please remember that used as an External Editor for Sigil, requires that the user saves the file before exiting PageEdit and before further editing in CodeView to prevent loss of text/code.

The Windows installer for PageEdit is currently a self-extracting zipfile. Double-clicking it will cause it to extract its contents to a folder named PageEdit. Put the PageEdit folder anywhere you like. The PageEdit.exe file can be found in that folder. PageEdit requires that the VC++ 2017 64-bit runtime is installed (but does not include or install it itself). If Sigil-0.9.15 (or higher) is already installed, this will already be taken care of. Otherwise, you’re free to download and install the 2017 runtime yourself if you don’t use Sigil.