---
title: "Sigil-0.9.11 Released"
date: 2019-02-16T14:16:43-05:00
last_modified_at: 2019-03-05T20:22:33-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---


### This is a buggy version of Sigil. Don’t use it. If you have good backups of your Sigil 0.9.10 (or earlier) preferences, roll back to [Sigil 0.9.10](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/0.9.10) and restore your backed up preferences. If you don’t have backups of your Sigil 0.9.10 (or earlier) preferences, roll back to Sigil 0.9.10 anyway and recreate your preferences as best you can from within Sigil’s UI. Those preferences will be usable with the release of Sigil that follows 0.9.12.

---

This Sigil release is a mix of bug fixes and new features for both epub2 and epub3 users. Some of the highlights for this release include:

Starting with Sigil-0.9.11, Sigil’s ini preference files will be utf-8 encoded to more easily allow users to manually edit them. __NOTE: before upgrading to Sigil-0.9.11, please make and save a backup of your preferences files. There is no issue with the conversion moving forward, but if, for whatever reason, you need to roll back to an earlier version of Sigil, utf-8 encoded unicode characters in your ini files will not work with earlier versions of Sigil. So please be safe and make a backup just in case.__

The Windows and Mac installers have been updated to use Qt5.11.2 and Python 3.7.

Restore ability to click in the Preview window to reposition to the same point in Code View while keeping the ability to follow links in Preview.

Allow users to maintain up to 5 external programs per file type with the Open With feature.

Sigil 0.9.11+ no longer supports Windows Vista.

Sigil 0.9.11+ no longer supports macOS 10.9 and macOS 10.10. macOS upgrades are available for free directly from Apple.

The specific changes/additions follow…

---

### Bug Fixes

*   after mend and prettify – put cursor at enclosing tag if possible
*   allow both links in Preview and clicking in Preview to reposition CV
*   fix new cursor repositioning under new tab ala Spellcheck
*   fix prettyprinting of the mark tag in gumbo and sigil\_bs4
*   fix crash when tagname illegally (for xhtml) includes single or double quotes
*   fix crash in Reports for non-wellformed xhtml that was okay under html5
*   fix deletion of multiple css files when Book View is open (Windows)
*   fix bug in reformat CSS with media queries
*   fix bug in closing some tabs needlessly when linking stylesheets
*   fix crash bug in gumbo parser under very strange circumstances
*   remove empty guide elements in epub2 opf as epubcheck now flags these
*   fix issue with index generation reordering spine entries under certain conditions

### New Features

*   update official builds to use Qt 5.11.2 and Python 3.7
*   update internal Python modules to use latest versions
*   update Sigil’s gumbo parser to fix all known bugs and greatly speedup parsing
*   embed new project css\_parser (fork of cssutils) as a python library to fix css parsing 
*   Sigil no longer attempts to upgrade the VC++ runtime on Windows. It only installs the  
    bundled VC++ runtime if there is no compatible version already installed
*   add support for internal but unmanifested opf metadata link resources under epub3
*   extend “Open With” context menu to allow up to 5 external editors per resource type
*   make format of all Sigil ini files to be utf-8 encoded to more easily allow user changes

Be aware that Sigil-0.9.11 still enforces the need for epub3 to have and support an NCX so that it generates as backward a compatible epub as possible. This may be relaxed in future releases.

Sigil-0.9.11 like its predecessors passed all of the following tests for epub3 support: iframe, img, audio, video , mathml, svg (except for svg support in the spine), javascript, and of course recognizing and allowing html5 specific tags like section, and etc. Sigil-0.9.11 also supports javascript based local-storage and display of embedded pdfs.

---

### Download Location

The official location for downloading this Sigil release (and all official releases) is:

The latest version of the Sigil User Guide can be downloaded from: <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/sigil-user-guide/releases/latest>

Downloading binaries from anyplace else is simply NOT a good idea as they could inject anything into their own downloads. After downloading, please verify the downloaded binary exactly matches what was originally posted by running an SHA 256 checksum on the file __before__ installing it. See the file Sigil-0.9.11-CHECKSUMS.sha256.txt for the correct checksums for each file and instructions for how to calculate a SHA 256 Checksum for your download. The Mac OS X Package has also been code signed with my Apple Developer signature.

---

### Windows Users

If your current version of Sigil is 0.9.6 or earlier, it’s recommended (but not required) that you uninstall that version before installing 0.9.11. Some compiled Python files have had their file extentions changed (as well as the change to Python 3.7). As a result, there will be a lot of extraneous files left lying around if you just install the new over the old. It won’t cause any functionality problems, but if disk space is at a premium, you may want to clean things up a bit. You can do this by uninstalling Sigil at any time (even after 0.9.11 is installed) and reinstalling. Doing so won’t affect your any of your preferences, plugins, keyboard shortcuts, clips, saved searches, etc.

### Linux Users

There are currently no official binary releases available for Linux on the Sigil Release page. Please check with your favorite distro’s software repositories to see if they have Sigil for installation via your OS’s package management system. If not, there are build instructions for compiling Sigil yourself in the source archive’s docs directory: <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/tree/master/docs>

## Don’t forget the FlightCrew plugin

Please note, the epub2 validator FlightCrew has been converted to a plugin for Sigil 0.8.900 and later.  
This plugin has been updated for Sigil-0.9.3 (and later). It can be downloaded from the official Sigil-Ebook flightcrew repository if you have not already installed it.

<https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/flightcrew/releases/latest>

### Attention Mac OS X Users

Per the recommendation of <http://www.python.org> (see <https://www.python.org/download/mac/tcltk/>), due to bugs and the age of Apple’s internal Tcl library, you should also download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition. To get the latest bug fixes, Sigil-0.9.11’s embedded Python has been linked with version: Tcl 8.6.4.1

We may _not_ redistribute this Package with Sigil due to ActiveState’s binary non-redistribution policy.

So please, if you have not already done so download and install this version of ActiveState’s Active Tcl Community Edition, until we get a chance to do our own build of Tcl 8.6.X from source for future releases. ActiveState is a primary contributor to <http://www.python.org> and a respected and trusted source for python and tcl/tk related binaries on both Windows and Mac OS X.

See: <http://www.activestate.com/activetcl/downloads>  
Version: 8.6.4.1 or later 8.6.X release

---

### Signed Source Archives and Git Tags

Starting with Sigil v0.9.9, the Git tags and source archives used for Sigil releases are signed with Doug Massay’s PGP Key. His public key can be found and retrieved from any public key server. The fingerprint for his public key is: `` B5A5 6206 AB0F BC1A 24EF AB8A A166 D29A 8FCD AC63 ``

### Some Additional things

When you fire up Sigil for the very first time:

*   navigate to the new General Preferences and select the default  
    epub version you plan to work with (epub 2 or epub3) so that new  
    empty ebooks start with the correct code.
*   if you plan to work with epub3 epubs, you should change your  
    PreserveEntities setting to use ONLY NUMERIC entities.  
    For example use &amp;\#160; for non-breaking spaces and etc.
*   We strongly recommend enabling Mend On Open in your settings  
    for best performance with Sigil.