---
title: "Sigil-1.1.0 Release"
date: 2020-02-06T20:15:46-05:00
last_modified_at: 2020-02-06T20:20:49-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---

Sigil-1.1.0 represents a mix of bug fixes and new features for both epub2 and epub3 users. Some of the highlights for this release include:

Dark mode suport for Windows Linux and macOSX. Mac is the only one of the three platforms where Qt inherently supports the system-level dark mode.

A brand-new higher-contrast icon set for Sigil has been contributed by BeckyEbook. Thanks for all your contributions to this version @Becky!

Sigil’s preference widgets have been redesigned to fit on smaller screens and to make room for future preference. Make sure you take a look around. Everything is still there, but some things have been regrouped and relocated.

### Platform-specific Dark Mode details:

On Windows, darkmode is most commonly controlled by the darkmode settings in the latest version of Windows 10’s settings. It won’t work “on the fly” like many apps from the Windows Appstore, so you’ll have to restart Sigil if you change your system settings to see the settings take effect. To override the system setting (or to enable dark mode on versions of Windows that don’t officially have a dark mode), use the SIGIL\_USES\_DARK\_MODE environnment variable (0 = off, anything else = on).

On Linux, Sigil has made changes to try and honor all platform themes that users define for their Qt apps on their desktop of choice. So theme managers like qt5ct or kvantum should work well with changing Sigil’s look. There might be a bit of color/qss tweaking to do, but all-in-all, I’ve seen good results with a myriad of themes (dark and light). If you’d like to opt-in to Sigil’s own included dark palette, set the FORCE\_SIGIL\_DARKMODE\_PALETTE environment variable before launching Sigil. That will cause Sigil to ignore platform themes/overrides and to use the same dark palette that Windows uses.

On macOSX, Dark mode should just work. Qt has added a lot of inherent support for Mac’s dark mode and Sigil has incorporated that support. Even on-the-fly time-of-day changes should work with Sigil.

### New Features (since the 1.0.0 release):

*   Added Support for Dark Mode for Windows, Linux and macOSX (Thanks BeckyEbook!)
*   Added new icons that work well under both Light and Dark modes (Thanks BeckyEbook)
*   Added ability to use Dark Mode for Preview (controlled by Preferences)
*   Added Zoom Keys Ctrl +/- support to the Inspector (for improved Accessibility)
*   Added support for a second Clip bar with up to 20 additional clips
*   Select Special Character Dialog now support scrollbars
*   Guide and Nav titles are now translated into ebook language (if translations available)
*   All Report Names have been shortened to allow larger font sizes for better Accessibility
*   Added improved contrast icons (Thank you BeckyEbook!)
*   Completely reworked all Sigil Preference Dialogs to make them more screen/user friendly
*   Added support for controlling Windows/Linux HighDPI settings
*   Clips from the Clips QDockwidget window can now be used in CSS Tabs as well.
*   The plugin interface has been extended to show current colorMode and primary colors

## Bug Fixes (since the 1.0.0 release):

*   Replaced deprecated QSignalMapper code with QActionGroups throughout Sigil’s code base  
     (still more work to do there)
*   Fixed bug in “open-with” on macOSX that did not allow .app files to be selected
*   Soft hyphens characters are now handled properly by Spellchecking \[PR from BeckyEbook\]
*   Fixed bug in ‘split at cursor” that created extra empty pages
*   Fix bug in Insert Files from Disk
*   Fixed same thread re-entrancy issues with tab creation / deletion code due to Qt signal/slot handling
*   Fixed source code typos \[PR from luzpaz\]
*   Fixed incorrect number of “times used” in Image Reports
*   Fixed plugin font\_iter() code to properly handle new Iana.org font media types
*   Broken links are no longer changed during ImportHTML (Add Existing…) operations
*   Cover svg image “vh” “vw” fixup code now properly handles empty headers on cover page
*   GetBookpathByPathEnd() will now work properly and thereby better handle detection of file  
     name conflicts during imports
*   Better handle file name info from Validation plugins
*   Inserting Links now creates proper links for top of page of the same file
*   Fix ImportHTML when creating a new book to properly add an NCX if needed
*   Include official QT backported fixes to Qt 5.12.6 to make it more stable
*   The nav will now properly handle internal links to top of page of the nav itself
*   harden lxml xml processing with resolve\_entities set to false for improved security

---

Please check the [Sigil Wiki](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki) for important Sigil support links, additional resource downloads, and platform-specific trouble-shooting tips/requirements.

Mac users should still download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition to utilize plugins that use Tk/Tcl GUIs. [More here](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki/Mac-OS-X-Notes).  
Mac users should also check out the wiki entry on the [New Release File Format](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki/Mac-OS-X-Notes#new-release-file-format-starting-with-sigil-0918)

The latest Sigil user guide can always be [downloaded from its own repository](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/sigil-user-guide/releases/latest).

[PGP Fingerprint](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki/Important-Links#signed-source-archives-and-git-tags)

[Sigil-1.1.0 Github Release page and downloads](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/1.1.0).