---
title: "Sigil-1.4.0 Release"
date: 2020-11-13T12:55:46-05:00
last_modified_at: 2020-11-13T12:55:46-05:00
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---

Sigil-1.4.0 represents a mix of bug fixes and new features for both epub2 and epub3 users.

Multiple Language Spellcheck support! Icon Themes and other cool stuff! Read all about it.

### New Features:

*   Two different types of Multiple Language Spellchecking support added:
    
    *   A user can now specify a Primary and a Secondary Language dictionary for real-time spellchecking (red squiggley underline).
    *   The Spellcheck Dialog will now support spell checking as determined by xml:lang and lang attributes in any languages with dictionaries
    
    
    
*   Main UI icons now use scalable svg files to better serve higher res displays. All provided by BeckyEbook (ala BeckyDTP). A huge Thank You! to BeckyEbook
*   New brighter Sigil Application Icon is now being used.
*   Alternate Sigil main Application Icon now available as a build-time option
*   Sigil now provides 3 different Icon Themes for the user: Main, Fluent, and Material. Again all thanks goes to BeckyEbook for creating/collecting all of the icon themes!
*   Sigil will now support a custom user-determined Icon theme via a custom .rcc file.
    
    *   pre-made icon themes for Legacy and Material themes in different base colors are now available with more user-contributed theme files to hopefully come. Again Thank BeckyEbook!
    *   checkout <https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/IconThemes> for more information and additional themes
    
    
    
*   New main toolbar icons are now available and improved icon groupings have been made to provide the user with a greater degree of toolbar customization. Users may need to drag and drop icon grouping and modify their selections of Toolbars to see some of these new options.
*   Improved support for IRI (international) hrefs. OPF newly added file manifest ids now converted to plain ascii to prevent issues with older readers

### Bug Fixes:

*   Fix bugs in Marking for Index
*   Perform major URL en/decode refactoring to properly handle ‘\#’ (and other reserved chars) in file names
*   Translate “Table of Contents” using book language not ui langauge
*   Fix handling of links when using Add Existing on xhtml files with links to other xhtml files
*   Fix split code to better handle duplicate target ids that reside in different files
*   Bug fixes for the plugin interface from wrCisco (Thank you!)
*   Bug fixes for the plugin interface setguide from BeckyDTP (Thank you!)
*   Fix bug in OPF parsing when valid but non-traditional namespace prefixes are used
*   Fix rare off by one condition in clip number to clip enditor model conversion

---

Please check the [Sigil Wiki](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki) for important Sigil support links, additional resource downloads, and platform-specific trouble-shooting tips/requirements.

Mac users should still download and install ActiveState’s ActiveTcl Community Edition to utilize plugins that use Tk/Tcl GUIs. [More here](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki/Mac-OS-X-Notes).  
Mac users should also check out the wiki entry on the [New Release File Format](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki/Mac-OS-X-Notes#new-release-file-format-starting-with-sigil-0918)

The latest Sigil user guide can always be [downloaded from its own repository](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/sigil-user-guide/releases/latest).

[PGP Fingerprint](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/wiki/Important-Links#signed-source-archives-and-git-tags)

__The binary downloads (and source) can be found as assets at the bottom of [The Sigil Github Release page](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/1.4.0).__