---
title: Sigil-2.2.0 Released
date: 2024-06-14T23:56:12Z
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
---

[CHECKSUMS file](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.2.0/Sigil-2.2.0-CHECKSUMS.sha256.txt){: .btn .btn--success}<br/>
[Windows x64 download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.2.0/Sigil-2.2.0-Windows-x64-Setup.exe){: .btn .btn--success}<br/>
[MacOS (Arm64) download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.2.0/Sigil.app-2.2.0-Mac-arm64.txz){: .btn .btn--success}<br/>
[MacOS (Intel) download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.2.0/Sigil.app-2.2.0-Mac-x86_64.txz){: .btn .btn--success}

Sigil version 2.2.0 represents a mix of bug fixes and new features.  We strongly recommend updating to the latest release of Sigil as it includes a large number of third party security fixes. Depending on how stable this version turns out to be, this may represent the last version of Sigil to support Qt5.

### Changes in this Release
#### New Features
- add support for Windows live switching from dark to light and light to dark modes
- add support for Linux kde and gtk3 live switching from dark to light and light to dark modes
- add new environment variable: SIGIL_PREVIEW_TIMEOUT (in milliseconds) to allow user control of the Preview updating intervals, valid range 100 - 10000. default value: 1000.  Set only once at Sigil startup.
- add new Find and Replace targets: Selected SVG files, Selected Javascript Files, and Selected Misc XML
- add new Find and Replace Regular Expression menu option: Unicode Property (*UCP)
- add ability to rename files when new name is just a case variant on case insensitive filesystems
- extended the number of clips that can be assigned to toolbars (total now of 60 clips supported)
- Accessibility improvements:
- add abiity to highlight the widget with current focus (Thanks BeckyEbook)
- add ability to double text insertion point width throughout Sigil
- Extend Python Plugin Interface with info on preferred font mangling information
- replacement strings in F&R can now use \x{hhhh} hex escape codes to represent unicode characters numerically

#### Other Changes
- There will be no more built-in HighDPI settings in Sigil's prefs. If you have special needs in that regard, you can still set your own Qt highdpi environment variables.
      
#### Bug Fixes
- reformating css with multiline now adds space after selector comma
- add in bulk resource move and use bulk delete to handle epubs with thousands of files
- add in bulk resource rename to handle epubs with thousands of files
- if Replace has focus and Find done, CodeView should get focus (Thanks BeckyEbook)
- fix dark mode Toolbar continuation symbols for Windows (Thank you BeckyEbook)
- fixed bug in Save-As context menu action in ImageTabs
- fix dark mode live switching on macOS issues qith QTreeView and QStandardItemModels
- fix bug in missing CharToEntity in the Create TOC process
- fix TabManager tab close symbol on macOS to match that used in dockwidgets
- use Unciode NormalizationForm C inside Sigil and for io
- fix macOS stuck at Maximized size issue

__Notes:__

The latest version of the Sigil User Guide can always be [downloaded from the Sigil website](https://sigil-ebook.com/sigil/guide), or from its own [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/sigil-user-guide/releases/latest).

Please check the [Sigil website](https://sigil-ebook.com/sigil) for important Sigil support links, additional resource downloads, and platform-specific trouble-shooting tips/requirements.

The MacOS builds are signed but they are NOT notarized.  See this [PageEdit/Sigil issue]( https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/PageEdit/issues/31) for more information.

PGP Fingerprint (for signed tags and source archives): `B5A5 6206 AB0F BC1A 24EF AB8A A166 D29A 8FCD AC63`

__All Sigil binary (and source) downloads can also be found as assets at the bottom of [The Sigil-2.2.0 Github Release page.](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/2.2.0)__

