---
title: Sigil-2.6.2 Released
date: 2025-09-13T01:08:34Z
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Releases
  - Sigil
excerpt: Sigil 2.6.2 is a mixture of bugfixes and new features
---

[Windows x64 download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.6.2/Sigil-2.6.2-Windows-x64-Setup.exe){: .btn .btn--success}<br/>
[Linux AppImage download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.6.2/Sigil-2.6.2-x86_64.AppImage){: .btn .btn--success}<br/>
[MacOS (Arm64) download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.6.2/Sigil.app-2.6.2-Mac-arm64.txz){: .btn .btn--success}<br/>
[MacOS (Intel) download](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/download/2.6.2/Sigil.app-2.6.2-Mac-x86_64.txz){: .btn .btn--success}

Sigil 2.6.2 is a mixture of bugfixes and new features.

<div markdown="1">
### New Features
- enable use of the fetch api in Sigil internal "sigil:" scheme
- create PreviewFileDialog to append thumbnail previews for images and selected text files when used in non-native dialog mode.  Leave native dialog mode untouched.
- added environment variable to revert to previous Sigil behavior of using native file dialog for "Add Existing": SIGIL_FORCE_NATIVE_FILE_DIALOG=1 (Note: due to the crash-happy nature of using native file dialogs in Qt, you are on your own if any issues arise from enabling this).
- added environment variable to turn off use of custom icons to make "Add Existing ..." work better over networked storage with lots of files: SIGIL_NO_CUSTOM_DIRECTORY_ICONS=1 (only used with non-native file dialog).
- BookBrowser now has a "View Image" pop-up menu item that allows users to see what any image (SVG included) without having to open a full Tab
- make CV understand the media-types of the file it is editing so that it can better create pop-up menu items like "View Image" when editing an SVG
- add support for "env-vars.txt" in Sigil Prefs folder, uses VARIABLE=VALUE one per line
- completely revamped the AppImage CI builds to use Docker images
</div>
{: .notice--success}

<div markdown="1">
### Bug Fixes
- work around bad Qt WebEngine bug when created dynamically and used inside a QDialog for Checkpoints
- fix minor bug in MediaTypes due to typo with append
- fix bug in Checkpoints Diff routine when viewing images that used to exist but no longer do
- fix bug in sanitycheck.py when spurious close tag is found before html tag
- fix bug in Aria Clips where the book language was not properly set (Thank you BeckyEbook)
- fix bug in Aria Clips where a # fragment was missing (Thank you BeckEbook)
- document that Qt 6.8.X now requires Mac OS 12 as the new minimum
- rename the environment variable: "SIGIL_FUNCTION_REPLACE_LOG_FILE" to now be: "SIGIL_FUNCTION_REPLACE_LOGFILE" to better match with other Sigil environment variables (Thank you BeckyEbook)
- rename the environment variable "SKIP_SIGIL_UPDATE_CHECK" to now be: "SIGIL_SKIP_UPDATE_CHECK" to keep all Sigil specific environment variables better in sync.
- fix bug in handling of epub filenames from input plugins
</div>
{: .notice--success}


__Notes:__

The Sigil Linux AppImage is built on Ubuntu Jammy (22.04) and is targeting glibc 2.35 and higher. Use ldd --version to see if your system at least has a shot at being able to use the AppImage. Don't forget to make sure the AppImage is executable after downloading. Trouble is not expected but be safe and backup your existing Sigil preferences (if you have any) before trying the AppImage.
{: .notice--info}

The latest version of the Sigil User Guide can always be [downloaded from the Sigil website](https://sigil-ebook.com/sigil/guide), or from its own [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/sigil-user-guide/releases/latest).
{: .notice--info}

Please check the [Sigil website](https://sigil-ebook.com/sigil) for important Sigil support links, additional resource downloads, and platform-specific trouble-shooting tips/requirements.
{: .notice--info}

The MacOS builds are signed AND notarized.
{: .notice--info}

PGP Fingerprint (for signed tags and source archives): `B5A5 6206 AB0F BC1A 24EF AB8A A166 D29A 8FCD AC63`
{: .notice--info}

__All Sigil binary (and source) downloads can also be found as assets at the bottom of [The Sigil-2.6.2 Github Release page.](https://github.com/Sigil-Ebook/Sigil/releases/tag/2.6.2)__
{: .notice--info}
